 Source URL: https://kiet.edu.pk/oric/our-policies/
================================================================================
 --- WEBPAGE TEXT ---
================================================================================
Our Policies
Click to Download
Research Policy
IP Policy
Revised Incentive award policy
Transfer-of-Technology-Policy
Research Ethics policy

================================================================================
 --- ASSETS OCR ---
================================================================================


>>> OCR: Research-Policy-1.pdf <<<
KIET/ORIC/6742/POL/02/2021
RESEARCH POLICY
1. Purpose:
This policy establishes the research environment within which Academic Staff,
Students and Visitors carry out their Research at Karachi Institute of Economics and
Technology (KIET). It also provides an overarching framework for the development and
implementation of all research management at KIET within the ambit of ORIC.
KIET is very keen to promote research and offers a variety of incentives to faculty
members related to publication of research. This document “Research Incentive Award
Policy” is attached to this document.
2. Definitions
In consonance with IP Policy the following definitions shall apply:
 Author. Any person to whom this Policy is applicable, who individually or jointly
with others makes a design, a mark or copyrightable work.
 Institution. Karachi Institute of Economics and Technology (KIET)
 Invention. A creation (a new device or process) resulting from Research.
 Inventor. Any person who individually or jointly with others makes an Invention.
 Office of Research Innovation and Commercialization Steering Committee shall
govern ORIC and its members shall be notified by the Institute.
 Research. Any creative work undertaken on a systematic basis in order to increase the
stock of knowledge, including knowledge of man, culture and society, and the use of
this stock of knowledge to devise new applications.
 Research Contract. Any type of agreement between the Institution and an external
party or research sponsor, concerning Research, which could result in IP being
created at the Institution.
 Research Project. Any project that forms the basis of Research undertaken by the
Institution and includes projects undertaken by a Student, under the supervision of a
Staff Member or a Visitor, as part of a research degree program.
 Scholarly Works. All copyright works which are the outputs of academic Staff
Members, Students or Visitors, including research, creative and other outputs in
1
KIET/ORIC/6742/POL/02/2021
area(s) of their expertise. It does not include Course Materials and computer software
and databases.
 Senior Responsible Officer. The President of the Institute.
 Staff Member. Any person who is under a contract of employment as permanent
staff with the Institute including academic, research, administrative or technical.
 Student. Any student registered for an approved course at the Institution.
 Visitor. Any person who is neither a Staff Member nor a Student of the Institution
who engages in work at the Institution, including visiting professors, adjunct and co-
joint professors, teachers, researchers, scholars and volunteers; and who concludes an
appointment agreement with the Institution.
3. Scope of the Policy:
This Policy applies to all Staff Members, Students and Visitors who participate in
a Research Project of the Institute.
4. Policy Content and Guidelines
a. Requirement to Undertake Research:
Each scholar will carry out independent Research, scholarly and/or creative activities
that are appropriate to their discipline. In doing so they will, individually or in
collaboration with colleagues:
(i) Supervise Research students;
(ii) Broadly disseminate Research results (i.e. through more than one medium
or one audience) including through their teaching practices and, where appropriate,
protect the results of their Research;
(iii) Be active within appropriate professional and discipline communities and
engineering community;
(iv) Contribute to the Research environment and culture of KIET through
activities such as mentoring, engagement in new Research initiatives and
strengthening the Research infrastructure; and
2
KIET/ORIC/6742/POL/02/2021
(v) Participate in initiatives designed to secure financial support for Research
activities from external sources (including for example, government funding,
industry partnerships, contracts, philanthropic gifts, etc.)
b. Research translation and commercialization opportunities.
(i) The requirement to undertake Research is a career expectation and will be
balanced with the other obligations of academic staff including teaching and
administrative responsibilities.
(ii) Nothing in this policy is to be construed so as to prevent Directors of
Colleges from allocating teaching and other responsibilities in the light of the
Research record of academic staff.
c. Statutory and Ethics Obligations
(i) Academic staff and students are required to carry out their Research in
compliance with all the University’s obligations under legislation and any
ethical and contractual obligations.
(ii) All Academic Staff, Students, and Visitors of the University are required
to make themselves aware and follow the contents of the various Institute
policies.
(iii) Securing and supporting external Research funding from the public
and private sectors.
(iv) Monitoring and reporting on externally funded Research grants
(v) Providing professional development opportunities for staff to enhance their
Research performance.
d. Research Planning
(i) Each Faculty, and its constituent academic units, is required to develop
and implement its own Research plan.
(ii) It is expected that all Research outputs will be publicly available.
(iii) All are required to comply with the Institute Intellectual Property Policy.
3
KIET/ORIC/6742/POL/02/2021
e. Research Contracts
(i) Authority. Staff Members, Students and Visitors shall not have the right
to enter into a Research Contract with external parties on behalf of the Institution
unless they are authorized to do so by the Senior Responsible Officer.
(ii) Research Contract Policy. All Research Contracts must be executed and
performed in consultation of ORIC.
(iii) Due diligence. Persons acting for and on behalf of the Institution shall
exercise all due diligence and consult ORIC when negotiating and signing
contracts that may affect the Institution’s IPRs. ORIC will extend its full support
to facilitate the researchers for the proposal writing and submission. This support
may come in the form of proposal scrutiny, contact facilitation with the funding
agency and constant perusal of the matter through the official channels.
(iv) Government rules. Research Contracts shall comply with any
applicable law and/or Government regulations and/or rules.
(v) Approval. Before signing, the full copy of the proposed Research Contract
and other legal statements concerning the Institution’s IPRs shall be submitted
to ORIC for advice and approval.
(vi) Basic Principles. The IP clauses in all Research Contracts shall the
governed by the following basic principles:
A. Concluded from the outset. A Research Contract must be executed
in writing and signed by the Institution and the external party/sponsor
prior to the commencement of any Research Project and, as
appropriate and without limitation, must contain terms relating to
ownership, management and use of IP arising from the Research
Project as well as any Background IP, which should be properly
recorded.
B. IP arising from the Research Contract. IP generated pursuant to a
Research Contract by Staff Members, Students or Visitors shall be
governed in terms of the above provisions relating to IP generated by
these parties. The IP resulting will be following the ownership
guidelines mentioned in IP policy.
(vii) Serendipitous IP. Any IP created during the course of the Research
Contract which falls outside of scope of the Research Contract shall be owned
4
KIET/ORIC/6742/POL/02/2021
by the Institution, Inventor or the external party/sponsor which developed such
IP, unless agreed contractually otherwise in the Research Contract.
A. Publication delay. Senior Responsible Officer may consider delay in
publication depending on the circumstances related IP protection.
B. Use of the IP for Research and teaching. In instances, where the
Institution IP is licensed exclusively or assigned as part of the
Research Contract, all efforts should be made to secure a royalty-free
license for use of the IP for on-going Research and teaching purposes.
C. Exceptions to the Policy. In certain cases, it may be necessary and/or
beneficial to the Institution to enter into a Research Contract that
contains exceptions to the provisions of this Policy. Any such
exceptions require prior, written approval from the Senior
Responsible Officer through ORIC.
5
KIET/ORIC/6742/POL/02/2021
6
KIET/ORIC/6742/POL/02/2021
7
KIET/ORIC/6742/POL/02/2021
8
KIET/ORIC/6742/POL/02/2021
9
--------------------


>>> OCR: Revised-Incentive-award-policyOct2021-.pdf <<<
KIET/ORIC/6742/POL/01/2021
Dated 20 Oct,2021
Revised Research Papers Incentive Award Policy: October 2021
1. Introduction. This policy outlines the incentives for KIET researchers who are involved
in research publications. These researchers include PhD / non-PhD faculty, PhD scholars and
students of KIET.
2. Eligibility. All researchers of KIET are eligible for the incentive award except the PhD
Scholars counting their Research Papers towards PhD degree requirement.
3. Incentives for Research Papers Published in ISl Indexed Journals. The details of
Research Incentive Award for the research papers published in accordance to Impact Factor are
delineated below:
a. If the PhD / non-PhD faculty, KIET PhD scholar or student is the First Author in
his/her research papers published in a Journal with Impact Factor:
i. If the Impact Factor is > 3.0 Rs 60,000
ii. If the Impact Factor is > 1.0 and 3.0 Rs 50,000
iii. If the Impact Factor is s 1.0 Rs 40,000
b. If the PhD / non-PhD faculty, KIET PhD scholar or student is the Second Author
in his/her research papers published in a Journal with Impact Factor:
i. If the Impact Factor is > 3.0 Rs. 40, 000/-
ii. If the Impact Factor is > 0 and :s 3.0 Rs. 30, 000/-
c. If the PhD/ non-PhD faculty KIET PhD Scholar or student is the Third Author in
his/her Research Papers published in a Journal with Impact Factor:
i. If the Impact Factor is > 3.0 Rs. 30, 000/-
ii. If the Impact Factor is > 0 and 3.0 Rs. 20, 000/-
d. If KIET faculty (both PhD & non-PhD), KIET PhD scholar or student publishes his/
her Research Paper in ISI Indexed Journal with no Impact Factor, it will be considered
equivalent to ‘X’ category Journal and accordingly the incentive award will be granted.
e. In case there are multiple authors from KIET and first author from KIET, then the
benefits will be distributed among the authors, as decided by the first author.
f. If multiple authors from KIET include both faculty member(s) and student(s), then
the distribution of incentive will be decided by the first faculty author, in the list of authors
from KIET.
g. In case the first author is not from KIET but the 2nd and 3rd authors are from KIET,
then the incentive award as per 2’ d author will be equally distributed between the 2nd and 3rd
author.
4. Incentives for Research Papers Published in other than Isl Indexed Journals. There are
also cash rewards for research publications in other categories of journals; however, for these
publications PhD/ non-PhD faculty, KIET PhD scholar or student will be given following rewards:
a. For a publication in KIET’s own non HEC recognized research journals, the
incentive will be Rs 30,000 for the first Author (whether from KIET or other universities).
b. For ‘X ‘and ‘Y’ category of NEC recognized journals the cash reward policy is as
given below: -
NEC Journal Category ‘X’ ‘Y’
First Author 25,000 15,000
Second Author 20,000 10,000
c. In case there are more than one author from KIET, then the benefits will be
distributed among the authors, as decided by the first author.
d. If multiple authors from KIET include both faculty member(s) and student(s), then
the distribution of incentive will be decided by the first author from KIET in the list of
authors who is a faculty member.
e. In case the First author is not from KIET and if the second author is from KIET,
then he/ she will also be entitled for the Incentive Award in HEC recognized Journal as
stated above.
f. The incentive award is applicable to only first two authors.
5. Journal Publication Fee. For ISI indexed journal papers, which have been accepted and
require publication fee be paid, KIET will provide a funding of up to US $ 200/- (not exceeding the
incentive amount) to be deducted from cash incentives for such a publication. For PhD
--------------------


>>> OCR: Research-Ethics-Policy.pdf <<<
Ref: KIET/ORIC/6742/2021/1
Date: 2nd July, 2021
KARACHI INSTITUTE OF ECONOMICS & TECHNOLOGY
OFFICE OF RESEARCH, INNOVATION AND COMMERCIALIZATION
RESEARCH ETHICS POLICY
1. Introduction
The research ethics policy elaborates the detailed ethical requirements for all research activities
conducted at the Karachi Institute of Economics and Technology (KIET). The management
and faculty of the Institute firmly believe that research integrity is the foundation for promoting
and sustaining a vibrant research culture. KIET is fully committed to maintain a good conduct
in all research activities undertaken by its students and faculty members in collaboration with
external bodies. Further, the students and faculty members of the Institute engaged in research
activities consider it their responsibility to maintain highest professional standards of integrity.
As per the guidelines of the Higher Education Commission, an Office of Research, Innovation
and Commercialization (ORIC) has been set up at KIET. The primary responsibility of ORIC
is to facilitate high quality research activities and their subsequent commercialization at the
Institute. In this context, ORIC shall play an instrumental role in developing industry-academia
linkages, provision of research trainings to faculty members and students, acquisition of
intellectual property rights and a platform for commercializing innovation.
This policy document outlines the ethical principles expected to be followed by researchers
and provide them a procedural framework that will assist them in fulfilling their ethical
obligations pertaining to research. The policy highlights the ethical principles to be followed
for research in all disciplines. The Ethical Institutional Review Board of KIET shall be
responsible for providing oversight and periodical review of this policy over time.
2. Ethical Institutional Review Board (IRB)
The KIET has formed a Ethical Institutional Review Board to ensure compliance with
professional, legal and ethical standards in research activities at KIET. The IRB will be chaired
by the Dr. Muzzaffar Mahmood (Dean) and comprise of three members, i.e. Dr. Hussain Pervez
(College of Engineering), Dr. Arsalan Hashmi (College of Management Sciences) , Dr. Maaz
bin Ahmed (College of Computing and Information Sciences) and Senior Medical Officer PAF
Airmen Academy Korangi Creek . The Ethical Institutional Review Board may invite
renowned researchers/academicians in its meetings from time to time for guidance and valuable
feedback. The tenure of the Ethical Institutional Review Board members shall be 2 years.
2.1 Responsibilities of the Ethical Institutional Review Board.
The IRB will monitor the research activities at KIET to ensure compliance with ethical
requirements. In this context, the research ethical institutional board shall:
i. Promote an ethical research culture at KIET.
ii. Advise ORIC to provide trainings to researchers for ethics capacity building.
iii. Monitor and ensure compliance of research activities with ethical principles.
3. Scope of Research Ethics Policy
The Research Ethics Policy is applicable to all research activities conducted by:
i. Permanent and visiting faculty members of KIET as well as other individuals
engaged for research purposes.
ii. Students and supervisors of KIET in all degree programs.
iii. Researchers working in collaboration with KIET faculty and students.
4. Research Ethics Policy
4.1 Coverage
The research ethics policy shall cover the following:
i. Research activities and external collaborators of KIET who complete any research
with KIET students/faculty/staff, including surveys, observations, focus groups,
laboratory experiments, field trials and other forms of investigation.
ii. Research activities by KIET staff, students and faculty members
iii. All types of research and consultancy projects channelled through ORIC.
4.2 Ethical Principles
All research activities at KIET should abide by the following ethical principles:
i. No harmful effect is to be allowed in any kind of research activity on human and/or
public property.
ii. No risk or damage to physical, mental, emotional, financial or any other form to
any stakeholder is to be permitted in any kind of research activity.
iii. No research activity is permitted causing loss of public property, damage to the
environment and health risk for the general public.
iv. Personal identity of participants, respondents, observed people and others taking
part in research must not be disclosed or published without consent.
v. Integrity and honesty with humans, public property and institutional research must
be observed on priority.
vi. Impartiality and non-biased approach must be observed in the case of ethnicity,
religious values, gender and specific groups of people and society.
vii. No element of force is to be allowed to coerce persons to take part in research.
viii. Consent of participation and understanding of research activity is mandatory.
ix. Clear explanation of predictable risks and associated benefits is required and must
be agreed upon voluntarily by participants for research.
x. Obtaining of prior consent is a prerequisite for any research process from the
owner/caretaker of public properties selected for research.
xi. Informed consent is a prerequisite for any research process from the caretaker of
anyone/anything involved in research, with no ability to provide informed consent.
xii. Permission is required if humans of other collaborative institutions are involved.
xiii. Plagiarism report is a prerequisite for all forms of written research work.
xiv. Approval of the IRB is mandatory at the stage of final submission regarding
compliance to research ethics.
xv. Research supervisor/project head assumes the responsibility of ethical compliance
and guidance during the research process.
4.3 Legal Considerations
i. Research ethics policy does not cover anything prohibited in the prevailing laws of
the country.
ii. Research ethics policy does not cover the research practices of collaborative
institutions.
iii. The research ethics policy and all the approvals of the IRB are in accordance with
the KIET’s rules and regulations.
iv. The researcher is under obligation to abide by the law of state and country.
v. The researcher is under obligation to abide by the rules and regulation of
collaborative partners involved in research.
4.4 Other Considerations
i. The research ethics policy and permission of the IRB do not cover any commitment
made by the researcher.
ii. Any dispute that arises between the researcher and the IRB may be referred to ORIC
or a subcommittee formed for dispute resolution.
iii. Any dispute that arises between the researcher and the
collaborators/participants/third party may be referred to the IRB.
iv. The researcher bears the sole responsibility for abiding by generally accepted
principles and practices of research ethics.
4.5 Research Councils, Professional Associations and Legal Issues
All the research projects, academic, industrial or otherwise, must meet the legal requirements
of Pakistan and international laws and statutory regulations. Researchers in each specific
discipline should comply with any research ethics guidelines set out by their professional
associations. Research councils, charitable trusts and other research funding bodies in most
cases require an undertaking from grant applicants that research proposals involving human
participants have been approved by the IRB.
4.6 Plagiarism
KIET is committed to fully comply with the HEC plagiarism policy and shall not permit any
kind of plagiarism from students and faculty members. In the case of violation of Research
Ethics Policy, specific sanctions will be imposed after investigation, ranging from financial
penalties to temporary suspension or expulsion. The following points are part of the plagiarism
policy:
i. Improper citation with dishonest intent.
ii. Citing a source that does not exist.
iii. Signing in for another author.
iv. Copying or using unauthorised materials, devices, or collaboration.
v. Falsifying evidence or data or other source materials, including falsification by
selectively omitting or altering data that do not support one’s claims or conclusions.
vi. Intentionally destroying or obstructing another researcher’s work.
vii. Knowingly violating research or professional ethics.
viii. Submitting as one’s own work a text largely or wholly written by another person(s).
ix. Copying or paraphrasing substantial sections from one or more works of other
authors into one’s own text, without attribution, that is, omitting any reference to
the work(s) either in the body of the text, in footnotes, or in the
bibliography/reference list.
x. Paraphrase of a substantial section or several smaller sections of another text(s)
without any reference in the body text, but the work is included in the
bibliography/reference list.
xi. Copying two or three not necessarily consecutive phrases, or one or two not
necessarily consecutive sentences, from the work of others without attribution.
xii. Copying one substantial or several smaller sections from another text without
quotation marks but with the reference provided within the student’s text.
xiii. Submitting without permission one's own work that has been largely or wholly
submitted for credit to another course.
xiv. Summarising an author’s ideas at length but only mentioning the author or the
source at the end of the paragraph.
xv. Mentioning an author with an appropriate citation in an earlier sentence but no
attribution in subsequent sentences, so that it is unclear whether the author's ideas
are continuing or the writer’s own comments are being offered.
xvi. Including a correctly referenced short fragment from another text but without
quotation marks
xvii. Using an author’s work with incomplete reference e.g. page number is missing, or
the work appears only in a footnote/ parentheses and is missing from the reference
list.
xviii. The Turnitin similarity index would not be the only indicator of Plagiarism.
However, it would be the responsibility of the supervisor to check the plagiarism
beyond Turnitin / any other similarity checking software report.
5. Research Ethics Clearance Certificate
Researchers should obtain a clearance certificate from the Ethical Institutional Review
Board by completing the Research Ethics Clearance Form, attached as Annex A. The
clearance certificate should be attached with the research proposal/report before submission
to a sponsoring body or other relevant forum, if required.
(M NIZAMUDDIN)
Air Commodore (Retd)
Registrar, KIET
Annex A
RESEARCH ETHICS CLEARANCE FORM
RESEARCHER INFORMATION
Name
Employee ID
Designation
Department/College
Email
Contact Number
DETAILS OF RESEARCH ACTIVITY
Research Title
Research Objective
Please mention if there is
any predictable risk to
individuals/general
public/society from the
research activity.
Please mention if there is
any predictable risk to
institutional/ public
property from the
research activity.
Please mention if the
researcher has obtained
consent from all relevant
stakeholders.
STATEMENT OF ETHICAL COMMITMENT
I ______________________________________ declare that all rules set by the Research Ethics
Policy are followed in my research. I also make a commitment to abide by ethical principles, moral
values and laws relevant to my research. My research carries no bias for ethnicity, gender, regional
aspects and is totally impartial and objective. I have also taken informed consent from all the
participants in my research.
Signature:
APPROVED BY
Chair, IRB Director, ORIC
Name: Name:
Signature: Signature:
Date: Date:
--------------------


>>> OCR: IP-Policy-1.pdf <<<
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY POLICY – PAF KIET
Sep 2021
1
TABLE OF CONTENTS
S.NO TOPIC PAGE NO
1 Preface 3
2 Definitions 3
3 Scope of the Policy 6
4 Governance and Operation 7
5 Ownership of IP and Rights of use 7
6 Publication, Non-disclosure and Trade secrets 10
7 Research Contracts 11
8 Determinations by the ORIC 12
9 Commercialization of IP 13
10 Incentives and distribution of revenue 14
11 IP portfolio maintenance 17
12 Conflicts of Interest and conflicts of commitment 18
13 Dispute 18
14 Amendment 19
2
1. Preface
 Introduction
This document outlines the IPR (Intellectual Property Rights) policy and
procedures expected to be followed by researchers in all colleges of KIET and
provide them a procedural framework that will assist them in fulfilling their (IPR)
pertaining to research and innovation. Steering Committee ORIC shall be
responsible for providing oversight and periodical review of this policy over time.
As per the guidelines of the Higher Education Commission, an Office of
Research, Innovation and Commercialization (ORIC) has been set up at KIET.
The primary responsibility of ORIC is to facilitate high quality research activities
and their subsequent commercialization at the Institute. In this context, ORIC
shall play an instrumental role in developing industry-academia linkage,
provision of research training to faculty members and students, acquisition of
intellectual property rights and further provide a platform for commercializing
an innovation.
It is the IP system that assists universities and research institutions to
commercialize their knowledge assets and by doing so potentially obtain
additional sources of funding. At the same time, partnership with the private
sector and other organizations, even extending beyond Pakistan, can ensure
that academic research outcomes have broader impact.
IPR includes guiding principles related to the emphasis the Institution places
on the financial and non-financial benefits of knowledge transfer. It speeds up
the access and commercialization of IP, on equitable and consistent terms to
all parties. It helps maintain the balance of interest (including academic
freedom, scholarship, research, shared governance, and the transmission of
knowledge via publication). IPR also help KIET’s social commitments and
ensures dissemination of knowledge and technology for the public good.
2. Definitions
Without prejudice to any applicable laws, in this Policy the definitions set out below
shall apply:
3
 Author. Any person to whom this Policy is applicable, who individually or jointly
with others makes a design, a mark or copyrightable work.
 Background IP. Any pre-existing IP created before the execution of any
Research Project, or prior to a Creator becoming subject to this IP Policy.
This applies to a Visitor, Staff Member, or a Student.
 Commercialization. Any form of utilization of IP intended to generate value,
which may be in the form of a marketable product, process or service, or
provides other benefit to the society.
 Commercialization Entity. A company that has access to the IP of the
Institution, through any of the available commercialization modes. , This can be
a Spin-off or Start-up. (Spin-off: created and owned by the Institute and Start-
up: created and jointly owned by the Institute, Researchers or an outside
agency).
 Conflict of Interest (COI). Any situation in which real or perceived interests of
a Staff Member, Visitor or Student may run counter to the interests of the
Institution or negatively affect their employment or duties.
 Course Material. All material used in, or in connection with, and for the purpose
of, teaching a course through the provision of lectures, tutorials, seminars,
workshops, field or laboratory work, assessments, and other teaching activities
conducted by the Institution.
 Creator. Any person to whom this Policy is applicable, who creates, conceives,
reduces to practice, authors, or otherwise makes a substantive intellectual
contribution to the creation of IP and who meets the definition of ‘inventor’, or
‘author’ as generally implied.
 Enabler. An assistant, technician, and other individuals, who have indirectly
contributed to the creation of an IP leading to Commercialization – mainly
through the execution of standard tasks or instructions.
 Gross IP Revenue. All revenue received by the Institution on
Commercialization of an IP before any deductions for IP Expenses.
 Institution. Karachi Institute of Economics and Technology (KIET)
 Intellectual Property (IP). All outputs of creative endeavor in any field at the
Institution for which legal rights may be obtained or enforced pursuant to the
law. IP may include:
i) Publications in respect of Research results, and associated materials,
including drafts, data sets and laboratory notebooks;
ii) Teaching and learning materials;
4
iii) Databases, tables or compilations, computer software, preparatory design
material for a computer program, firmware, courseware, and related
material;
iv) Patentable and non-patentable information ;
v) Designs including layout designs (topographies) of integrated circuits;
vi) Trade secrets;
vii) Know-how, information and data associated with the above; and
viii) Any other Institution-commissioned works not included above.
 Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs). The proprietary rights that may be
granted for an invention, mark, design, plant variety, or other type of IP, should
the statutory requirements for protection be met to result in a patent, trade
mark, or registered design.
 Invention. A creation (a new device or process) resulting from study and
experimentation.
 Inventor. Any person who individually or jointly with others makes an Invention.
 IP Disclosure Form. The form to be completed by Creators and submitted to
document their creation.
 IP Expenses. All expenses incurred by the Institution in the management and
Commercialization of IP for which Gross IP Revenue has been received.
 Net IP Revenue. Gross IP Revenue less IP Expenses.
 Office of Research and Innovation Steering Committee shall govern ORIC
and its members shall be notified by the Institute.
 Public Disclosure. The communication of information, relating to IP, to
external parties. Public Disclosure includes, but is not limited to, disclosure in
written or oral form; communication by email; posting on a Institute website;
disclosure in a news report, press release or interview; publication in a journal,
abstract, poster, or report; presentation at a conference; examination of a
thesis; demonstration of an Invention at a trade show; or the industrial
application of an Invention.
 Public Domain. The freely accessible public realm in which works that are
not protected by intellectual property rights.
5
 Research. Any creative work undertaken on a systematic basis in order to
increase the stock of knowledge, including knowledge of man, culture and
society, and the use of this stock of knowledge to devise new applications.
 Research Contract. Any type of agreement between the Institution and an
external party or research sponsor, concerning Research, which could result in
IP being created at the Institution.
 Research Project. Any project that forms the basis of Research undertaken
by the Institution and includes projects undertaken by a Student, under the
supervision of a Staff Member or a Visitor, as part of a research degree
program.
 Scholarly Works. All copyright works which are the outputs of academic
Staff Members, Students or Visitors, including research, creative and other
outputs in area(s) of their expertise. It does not include Course Material and
computer software and databases.
 Senior Responsible Officer. The President of the Institute.
 Staff Member. Any person who is under a contract of employment as
permanent staff with the Institute including academic, research, technical, or
administrative.
 Student. Any student registered for an approved course at the Institution.
 Substantial Use. Extensive use of the Institution’s resources which include but
are not limited to facilities, equipment, human resources or funds and
Background IP that is not publicly available. Not included is routine use of
libraries and/or office space.
 Tangible Research Property (TRP). Physical matter like integrated circuit
chips, prototype devices, bread-board circuits, and equipment. TRP may or
may not be patentable and is separate and distinct from IP. TRP and IP can
exist simultaneously on the same technology. Examples: may include, but are
not limited to: IC chips, software, databases, prototypes, drawings, and other
property, which can be physically distributed.
 TIBIC Technology, Innovation and Business Incubation Centre at KIET
 Visitor. Any person who is neither a Staff Member nor a Student of the
Institution who engages in work at the Institution, including visiting professors,
adjunct and conjoint professors, teachers, researchers, scholars and
volunteers; and who concludes an appointment agreement with the Institution.
6
3. Scope of the Policy
Following comes under the scope of IP Policy.
 IP. This Policy applies to all IP generated at the Institution.
 Background IP. Upon commencing employment, enrolment or an
appointment, Staff Members, Students and Visitors must declare any existing
IP they wish to exclude from the application of this Policy due to creation prior
to their employment, enrolment or Appointment at the Institution.
 Applicability. This Policy applies to all Staff Members, Students and Visitors
who participate in a Research Project or produce Scholarly Works.
 Informed consent. This Policy shall be posted on the Institution’s website,
4. Governance and Operation. The Institution has established ORIC to oversee the
implementation and evolution of this IP and shall be responsible for the following:
 Outreach/awareness to Creators;
 Relationship of Institute with the Creators;
 IP management;
 Technology marketing and IP contract negotiation;
 IP contract management; and
 IP costs and revenue distribution formulation.
5. Ownership of IP and Rights of use.
 IP Created by Staff Members
 Institutional and Staff Member Co-ownership. The Institute, inventor(s)
and/or the industrial partner may register a startup in TIBIC or anywhere else
and then the IP rights may be assigned to the startup and the royalties may be
shared according to an understanding between them referred hereto as the
“Sharing Deed” covering IP and all other aspects. This model is extendable to
foreign research partners and industrial partners who are involved in the
Research at KIET.
The Institute may choose not to own a particular IP and may assign its rights
to the Inventor.
7
 Staff Member ownership. Staff Members will own/co-own the IP they have
created when such an IP:
 is outside the course and scope of their employment and without
Substantial Use of the Institution’s resources
 vests in Scholarly Works:
 IP emanating from Research Contracts. The terms of the Research Contract
along with the terms mentioned above for IP ownership sharing between the
Institute and inventor(s) will regulate ownership of IP created by Staff Members
in the course of a Research Project that forms part of a Research Contract, as
set out in Section 7 (Research Contracts).
 IP Created by Students
 Student ownership. IP created by a Student in the course of study at the
Institution (including theses, dissertations and other Scholarly Works) will be
owned by the Student. This is not applicable to the IP created by a Student in
a Research Project.
 Theses or dissertations. The Student must submit their final thesis or
dissertation to the Institutional repository.
 Institution ownership. IP emanating from a Student’s Research Project
shall be owned by the Institution in the following circumstances:
 If the IP is created by making Substantial Use of the Institution’s resources
(excluding supervision), or
 If the Research carried out by the Student forms part of the Institution’s
Research Projects.
 IP emanating from Research Contracts. The terms of the Research Contract
shall regulate the ownership of IP created by a Student in the course of such
Research Contract, as set out in Section 8 (Determination by ORIC).
 Scholarships. An external party that grants a scholarship to a Student may
elect to own the IP created by that Student in the course of his/her study at
the Institution provided the Student and the Institution have consented to the
assignment of IP ownership in writing.
 Student Owned IP. ORIC may, upon agreement, provide Commercialization
services to Students for their IP.
 IP Created by Visitors
8
 Institution ownership. Unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the
Institution and the Visitor’s home institution prior to the tenure at the
Institution, Visitors are required to assign to the Institution any IP:
 created in the course and scope of their Appointment at the Institution;
or
 created by making Substantial Use of the Institution’s resources.
 Institution IP. On departure from the Institution, a Visitor must sign and
submit to ORIC an IP Disclosure form disclosing any IP created, as per
above, whilst at the Institution.
 Special Rules for Course Materials
 Institution ownership. The Institution will own the IP in Course Materials
created by a Staff Member or a Visitor, with the exclusion of Course Material
that is created from or for Open Educational Resources.
 Licensed by the Institution. The Institution grants the Creators of Course
Materials a royalty-free, non-exclusive license to use the Course Materials
created by them for teaching and Research purposes at the Institution.
Special Rules for Scholarly Works
 Publication. The Institution recognizes and endorses the rights of Staff
Members, Students and Visitors to publish their Scholarly Works, provided
that any Scholarly Work which may disclose any possible Institutional IP
shall first be cleared by ORIC after having an opportunity to protect such
Institutional IP according to determination by ORIC.
 Institutional repository. Staff Members, Students and Visitors should
endeavor to obtain publishers’ permission to include published Scholarly
Works in the Institutional repository.
 Licensed to the Institution. Staff Members, Studentsi and Visitors shall
grant to the Institution a non-exclusive, royalty free license to use their
Scholarly Works for the Institution’s Research and teaching purposes.
 Moral Rights
 Recognition. The Institution undertakes to respect and protect
the moral rights which copyright law confers on Authors of
copyright works.
9
 Rights granted. The Institution acknowledges that moral rights
vest in Authors of copyright works irrespective of the copyright
ownership thereof and include:
a. The right of attribution of authorship in respect of the
copyright works;
b. The right not to have authorship of the copyright works
falsely attributed; and
c. The right of integrity of authorship in respect of the
copyright works.
 No waiver. The Institution will not require Staff Members, Students or
Visitors to waive their moral rights as a condition of employment,
enrolment, Appointment or funding.
 Public Domain
 Public Domain. Institution IP forms part of the Public Domain in the
following circumstances:
 If a Research Contract provides that the Research results be placed
into the Public Domain; or
 If Staff Members or Visitors made use of Open Source and the
licensing conditions require release of derivatives into the Public
Domain.
 Release into the public domain. The Institution will release IP, on advice of
ORIC, into the Public Domain in the following circumstances:
 Where it is deemed to be in the public interest;
 If deemed necessary by the Institution.
6. Publication, Non-disclosure and Trade secrets
 Right of publication. The Institution encourages and supports the right of
Creators to decide if and when to publish their Research results.
 Non-disclosure for IP protection. In conjunction with the right of publication,
Creators should be aware that premature Public Disclosure may result in loss
of IP protection rights. Therefore, they are strongly encouraged to make all
reasonable efforts to identify any protectable IP as early as possible,
10
according to Section 8 (Determinations by ORIC), and shall consult ORIC
before making any Public Disclosure of potential Institution IP
 Trade Secrets. The Institution may designate certain confidential information
as a Trade Secret, owned by the Institution. In that event, all Creators will be
obligated to maintain secrecy of the Trade Secret and to follow the direction for
management of the Trade Secret by ORIC.
7. Research Contracts
 Authority. Staff Members, Students and Visitors shall not have the right to
enter into a Research Contract with external parties on behalf of the Institution
unless they are authorized to do so by the Senior Responsible Officer.
 Research Contract Policy. All Research Contracts must be executed and
performed in consultation of ORIC.
 Due diligence. Persons acting for and on behalf of the Institution shall exercise
all due diligence and consult ORIC when negotiating and signing contracts that
may affect the Institution’s IPRs. ORIC will extend its full support to facilitate
the researchers for the proposal writing and submission. This support may
come in the form of proposal scrutiny, contact facilitation with the funding
agency and constant perusal of the matter through the official channels.
 Government rules. Research Contracts shall comply with any applicable law
and/or Government regulations and/or rules.
 Approval. Before signing, the full copy of the proposed Research Contract and
other legal statements concerning the Institution’s IPRs shall be submitted to
ORIC for advice and approval.
 Basic Principles. The IP clauses in all Research Contracts shall the governed
by the following basic principles:
 Concluded from the outset. A Research Contract must be
executed in writing and signed by the Institution and the external
party/sponsor prior to the commencement of any Research
Project and, as appropriate and without limitation, must contain
terms relating to ownership, management and use of IP arising
from the Research Project as well as any Background IP, which
should be properly recorded.
 IP arising from the Research Contract. IP generated pursuant
to a Research Contract by Staff Members, Students or Visitors
shall be governed in terms of the above provisions
11
relating to IP generated by these parties. The IP resulting will be
following the ownership guidelines mentioned above in Section
5.
 Serendipitous IP. Any IP created during the course of the Research
Contract which falls outside of scope of the Research Contract shall be
owned by the Institution, Inventor or the external party/sponsor which
developed such IP, unless agreed contractually otherwise in the Research
Contract.
 Right of first refusal to the IP. The Research Contract may include
provisions giving the external party/sponsor, a right of first refusal to
Commercialize the IP emanating from the Research Contract, through a
license or joint venture arrangement or assignment.
 Publication delay. Senior Responsible Officer may consider delay in
publication depending on the circumstances related IP protection.
 Use of the IP for Research and teaching. In instances, where the
Institution IP is licensed exclusively or assigned as part of the
Research Contract, all efforts should be made to secure a royalty- free
license for use of the IP for on-going Research and teaching purposes.
 Exceptions to the Policy. In certain cases, it may be necessary
and/or beneficial to the Institution to enter into a Research Contract
that contains exceptions to the provisions of this Policy. Any such
exceptions require prior, written approval from the Senior Responsible
Officer through ORIC.
8. Determinations by ORIC.
 Responsibility to Disclose IP
 Recording. Creators shall keep appropriate records of their Research
in accordance with the Institution’s applicable policy procedures and
make reasonable efforts to ensure that only those individuals within
the Institution who have a need to have access to such records for the
performance of their duties are granted such access.
 IP Disclosure. Where a Creator identifies potential IP resulting from
Research shall be disclosed to ORIC promptly by means of a IP
Disclosure Form available with ORIC.
 Complete disclosure. Creators must provide to ORIC such full,
complete and accurate information ORIC may reasonably require to
enable it to sufficiently assess the technical and related features and
12
functions, ownership, commercial potential and IP protection that might
be applicable to such IP. Upon complete disclosure, the IP Disclosure
will be formally acknowledged by the Institution.
13
 Creatorship and Ownership
 Creatorship. Creators shall, upon request, sign the appropriate legal
documents provided by ORIC that attests to creatorship. Where there
is more than one Creator, and there is a dispute as to the contribution
to creatorship, ORIC shall in consultation with the Creators, assist in
the determination of the percentage IP creatorship, failing which it
shall be assumed that there was an equal undivided contribution.
 Ownership. Once creatorship has been determined, the Creators
shall be required to either formally coordinate with the ORIC and the
institute to establish ownership of the IP as defined in the guidelines in
Section 5 above.
 Determination as to IP Protection and Commercialization
 Evaluation and recommendation. ORIC will analyze the information
disclosed in the IP Disclosure. The analysis will include: whether or not
the subject matter is protectable as IP; an assessment of economic
viability or marketability; and determination of any rights of external
parties, such as a funder or collaborator. After evaluation, ORIC will
prepare a preliminary report with findings that enable the Institution to
decide if it will proceed with IP protection and Commercialization.
ORIC shall share the preliminary report with the Creator(s) and seek
their input.
 Decision to protect/Commercialize. The Institution will decide, as
soon as reasonably practicable, whether or not it wishes to protect
and/or Commercialize the IP. ORIC will use all reasonable efforts to
notify the Creator(s) of the Institution’s decision. ORIC will also make
a determination in relation to the validity of any claim made by a Staff
Member, a Visitor or a Student that they are the true Creator(s) of that
IP and in relation to their rights under this Policy.
 Institution’s obligation to notify Creators of its decision. ORIC will
notify the Creator(s) of the decision of whether the Institution will or will
not pursue IP protection and Commercialization and which model of
the co-ownership the Institute is interested in for their IP Disclosure.
9. Commercialization of IP.
 Determination of the Commercialization Strategy. Expectedly within three
months the decision to protect or Commercialize the IP under Section 8 the
Institution and ORIC will, with input from the Creators, the most appropriate
Commercialization strategy.
14
 Assistance to and from ORIC. Creators of IP which has been selected for
IP protection and Commercialization by the Institution must provide ORIC (and
vice versa) with all reasonable support in the assessment, protection and
Commercialization of the IP.
 Guidelines. Regardless of the mode of IP Commercialization, the transaction
will be executed in a contract which:
 Protects the interests of the Institution, its Staff Members, Students
and Visitors;
 Retains rights for the Institution to use the IP for educational and
research purposes;
 Assures that the IP will be utilized in a manner which will serve the
public good;
10. Incentives and Distribution of Revenues.
 The Institution’s Incentive Structure
 Purpose and scope. The Institution, in the interest of promoting
knowledge transfer, will give due consideration to incentives to
Researchers/Creator(s)/Inventor(s) to foster Research that has socio-
economic impact; such incentives may be financial or non-financial.
A Creator may receive incentives from each IP they created/enabled
which is Commercialized.
 Sharing of Revenues
 Calculation of revenues for distribution. Calculation of Gross IP
Revenue, IP Expenses, and Net IP Revenue shall be in accordance
with the following rules:
 Calculation of Gross IP Revenue. Further to the definition this
will include, but is not limited to, outright sale of IP, option
payments received, license fees received, evaluation fees
received, upfront and milestone payments received, royalty
payments received, share of profits received, dividends received,
commissions, income through disposal of equity, and direct sale
of products or services.
 IP Expenses. Further to the definition this will include but is not
limited to, those expenses that relate to (i) the Institution’s
expenses incurred by payment to external entities for securing,
15
maintaining and enforcing IP protection, such as patenting and
litigation expenses; (ii) costs incurred by the Institution in the
licensing/assignment of IP, including marketing costs, contract
negotiation and drafting costs; and (iii) costs in making, shipping
or otherwise distributing products, processes or services that
embody the particular IP, but not including staff time or general
administrative costs.
 Calculation of Net IP Revenue. ORIC shall maintain
documentation of IP Expenses incurred for a particular IP and
shall be entitled to cover all IP Expenses it has incurred, as set
out in the above sub paras. The “Net IP Revenue” is calculated
as the Gross IP Revenue less IP Expenses.
 Co-owned IP. Where the IP is co-owned by the Institution,
creator(s)/inventor(s) and an outside organization, the Gross IP
Revenue received by the Institution will be shared in accordance
with a pre-determined formula as per a contractual arrangement
in the Sharing Deed.
 Sharing of revenues – Creators/Enablers
 Standard Creator’s share. 80% of the Net IP Revenue will be
allocated to the Creator. Where there is more than one Creator,
the Creators are entitled to an equal or pro rata share, based on
contribution, of 80 % of the Net IP Revenue, except where there
is a prior written agreement between all the Creators.
 Standard Enabler’s share. Creator may at their joint sole
discretion choose to provide for Enablers to receive a share of
the Creator’s portion of the Gross or Net IP Revenue. This
arrangement must be agreed to in writing by all creators, if more
than one.
 Disputes. In the event of a dispute or uncertainty regarding the
Creators’/Enablers’ share of the Gross or Net IP Revenue from
a specific IP, the issue shall be brought for resolution to ORIC.
 Payment. Payment to the Creators/Enablers will be made by the
Institution on a periodic basis as agreed in writing, but no later
than 4 months after receipt of the Gross IP Revenue by the
Institution.
 Taxes. Payments made as per are subject to personal tax. The
Institution may, if so obliged by national tax laws, make any
applicable tax deductions before making payments to the
Creator/ Enabler.
16
 Entitlement. Creators/Enablers and their heirs will be entitled to
IP revenue sharing for as long as the Institution receives Gross
IP Revenues from Commercialization of the Institution IP. The
entitlement to a Creator’s/Enabler’s share of Gross or Net IP
Revenue shall be settled at the time of resignation/termination
of employment.
 Banking details. The onus is upon each Creator/Enabler to
ensure that the Institution has their current banking details for the
purpose of revenue sharing. The Institution will keep the relevant
IP revenue amounts in reserve for a maximum period of 3 (three)
years after which all rights of Creator/Enabler to receive such
payments will be forfeited. If the Institution pays an amount into
an incorrect account as a result of information supplied to it being
outdated or incorrect, the Institution will not have any further
obligation or liability in respect of such payment, which will be
deemed to have been duly and properly made.
 Other Incentives
 General. As a default position, the Institution will refrain from accepting
non-monetary benefits for the Commercialization of its IP or from
offering incentives other than revenue sharing, unless they are in
addition to the revenue sharing, as appropriate. The Institution will thus
give consideration, on a case-by-case basis, to the provision of other
incentives, where monetary benefits (revenues) are not available or
where the Creator/Enabler elects to choose other benefits in lieu of
revenue sharing, which may only be realized in due course. Other
incentives will include, but are not limited to, the incentives described
below.
 Growth, development and acknowledgement.
(i) recognition of IP generation and Commercialization performance
in appraisal procedures; and
(ii) opportunities for enterprise development or capacity
development through, for example, specific training opportunities,
sabbaticals, and local and international exchanges in their relevant
Research field.
 Research funds. The Institution will actively, though its ORIC,
promote, source and/or facilitate collaborative arrangements with
industry partners to secure funding for further Research for the
Creator.
17
 Creator/Enabler receiving shares in a Commercialization Entity
or other licensee.
 In the case where a Creator/Enabler is granted equity as per
Sharing Deed in a Commercialization Entity that licenses the
Institution IP which the Creator/Enabler has created, such
Creator’s/Enabler’s portion in the standard sharing formula will be
unaffected.
 Where the Institution receives shares in a licensee company,
which company may be a Commercialization Entity, as
consideration for an IP license, the Institution will hold all the
shares until liquidation, at which time the income will be
considered Gross IP Revenue and the Creators/Enablers will
receive their share according to the sharing formula.
 Notwithstanding the benefit sharing in respect of shares in terms
of earlier article the Creators/Enablers will still be entitled to their
share of any other revenues under the IP license.
 Contact Details
 Contact details. The onus is upon each Creator/Enabler to ensure
that the Institution is in receipt of their current address details for the
purpose of revenue sharing. Unless contrary to law, should the
Institution be unable to locate the Creators/Enablers through
reasonable efforts, in order to effect payment of the revenue share
amount, and a period of three years has passed since an initial
attempt, then the portion owed to that Creator/Enabler or their heirs
will be paid to the Institution’s central fund to be used to support
Research and innovation activities.
11. IP Portfolio Maintenance
 Recording and monitoring. ORIC shall maintain records of the Institution’s IP
in an appropriate form and in sufficient detail. It shall monitor the deadlines for
the payment obligations related to the maintenance or annuity fees of protected
IP, and shall, within a reasonable time, inform the person or department
designated to make such payments.
 Accounting. ORIC shall maintain income/expense accounting records on
each IP so that revenue sharing allocations can be calculated.
18
12. Conflicts of Interest and Conflicts of Commitment
 Commitment to the Institution. Staff Members’ and Visitors’ primary
commitment of time and intellectual contributions should be to the education,
research and academic programs of the Institution.
 Best Interests of the Institution. Staff Members and Visitors have a primary
professional obligation to act in the best interests of the Institution; they should
avoid situations where external interests could significantly and negatively
affect their work ethic and research integrity.
 Agreements with External Parties. It is the responsibility of all Staff Members
and Visitors to ensure that their agreements with external parties do not conflict
with their duties and responsibilities in terms of this Policy. This provision shall
apply in particular to private consultancy and other research service
agreements concluded with external parties.
 Disclosure of External Activities and Financial Interests. Staff Members
and Visitors shall promptly report all potential and existing Conflict of Interest
(COI) or Conflict of Commitment (COC) to the appropriate Institutional
authority, in compliance with applicable COI/COC policies. ORIC will be
responsible for resolving the conflict or reaching a solution satisfactory to all
parties concerned.
13. Dispute
 Violation. Breach of the provisions of this Policy shall be dealt with under the
normal procedures of the Institution, and in accordance with the relevant
provisions of laws and regulations in force.
 Dispute Resolution
 Any internal disputes or questions of interpretation arising under this
Policy must in the first instance be referred to ORIC for consideration
and/or mediation.
 If the matter cannot be resolved by the IP Committee within two
months, then the dispute or question of interpretation must be
referred to the Senior Responsible Officer for mediation.
 The Senior Responsible Officer may at their sole discretion refer
the matter to Institution’s BOG and/or an independent committee for
arbitration as final arbiter of any disputed issues or for final
determination.
 Appeal. Individuals covered by this Policy shall have the right to appeal
the application of any aspect of this Policy to Institution’s BOG.
19
14. Amendment
 Revision. This Policy may be amended at any time by a decision of the
Steering Committee. In this case:
 All IP disclosed on or after the effective date of such amendment
shall be governed by the Policy as amended; and
 All IP disclosed prior to the effective date of the amendment shall be
governed by the Policy prior to such amendment, provided that the
provisions of the Policy (as amended) shall apply to all IP licensed or
otherwise Commercialized on or after the effective date of any such
amendment regardless of when the IP is disclosed.
20
--------------------


 --- LINKS FOUND ---
