 Source URL: https://qec.kiet.edu.pk/policies/
================================================================================
 --- WEBPAGE TEXT ---
================================================================================
POLICIES
1. Harassment of Women at the Workplace Act, 2010
Download Policy
2. Sexual Harassment Policy
Download Policy
3. Harassment of Women at the Workplace (Amendment) Act, 2022
Download Policy
4. HEC Plagiarism Policy
Download Policy

================================================================================
 --- ASSETS OCR ---
================================================================================


>>> OCR: Act-2010-1.pdf <<<
[THE PROTECTION AGAINST HARASSMENT OF WOMEN AT THE
WORKPLACE ACT 2010]
PART 1
Acts, Ordinance, President’s Orders and Regulations
SENATE SECRETARIAT
Islamabad, the 11th March, 2010
No. F. 9 (5)/2009- Legis.__ The following Acts of Majlis-e-Shoora
(Parliament) received the assent of the President on 9th March, 2010, are hereby
published for general information:__
Act No. IV 2010
OF
An Act to make provisions for the protection against harassment of women at the
workplace
WHEREAS the constitution of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan recognizes the
fundamental rights of citizens to dignity of person;
AND WHEREAS it is expedient to make this provision for the protection of
women from harassment at the workplace;
It is hereby enacted as follows:
1. Short title, extent and commencement. - (1) This Act may be called the
Protection against Harassment of women at the Workplace Act, 2010.
(2) It extends to the whole of Pakistan.
(3) It shall come into force at once.
2. Definitions. – In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or
context,–
(a) “accused” means an employee or employer of an organization against
whom complaint has been made under this Act;
(b) “CBA” means Collective Bargaining Agent as provided in the Industrial
Relations Act 2008,( IV of 2008) or any other law for the time being in
force.
(c) “Code” means the Code of Conduct as mentioned in the Schedule to this
Act;
(d) “Competent Authority” means the authority as may be designated by the
management for the purposes of this Act;
(e) “Complainant” means a woman or man who has made a complaint to the
Ombudsman or to the Inquiry Committee on being aggrieved by an act of
harassment;
(f) “Employee” means a regular or contractual employee whether employed
on daily, weekly, or monthly or hourly basis, and includes an intern or an
apprentice;
(g) “Employer” in relation to an organization, means any person or body of
persons whether incorporated or not, who or which employs workers in an
organization under a contract of employment or in any other manner
whosoever and includes –
(i) an heir, successor or assign, as the case may be, of such person or,
body as aforesaid;
(ii) any person responsible for the direction, administration,
- 2 -
management and control of the management;
(iii) the authority, in relation of an organization or a group of
organization run by or under the authority of any Ministry or
department of the Federal Government or a Provincial government,
appointed in this behalf or, where no authority is appointed, the
head of the Ministry or department as the case may be;
(iv) the office bearer, in relation to an organization run by or on behalf
of the local authority, appointed in this behalf, or where no officer
is so appointed, the chief executive officer bearer of that authority;
(v) the proprietor, in relation to any other organization, of such
organization and every director, manager, secretary, agent or office
bearer or person concerned with the management of the affairs
thereof.
(vi) a contractor or an organization of a contractor who or which
undertakes to procure the labour or services of employees for use
by another person or in another organization for any purpose
whatsoever and for payment in any form and on any basis
whatsoevery; and
(vi) office bearers of a department of a Division of a Federal or a
Provincial or local authority who belong to the managerial,
secretarial or directional cadre or categories of supervisors or
agents and those who have been notified for this purpose in the
official Gazette;
(h) harassment” means any unwelcome sexual advance, request for sexual
favors or other verbal or written communication or physical conduct of a
sexual nature or sexually demeaning attitudes, causing interference with
work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or offensive work
environment, or the attempt to punish the complainant for refusal to
comply to such a request or is made a condition for employment;
(i) “Inquiry Committee” means the Inquiry Committee established under
- 3 -
sub-section (1) of section 3;
(j) “management” means a person or body of persons responsible for the
management of the affairs of an organization and includes an employer;
(k) “Ombudsman” means the Ombudsman appointed under section 7
(l) “organization” means a Federal or Provincial Government Ministry,
Division or department, a corporation or any autonomous or semi-
autonomous body, Educational Institutes, Medical facilities established or
controlled by the Federal or Provincial Government or District
Government or registered civil society associations or privately managed a
commercial or an industrial establishment or institution, a company as
defined in the Companies Ordinance, 1984 (XLVII of 1984) and includes
any other registered private sector organization or institution;
(m) “Schedule” means Schedule annexed to this Act;
(n) “workplace” means the place of work or the premises where an
organization or employer operates and includes building, factory, open
area or a larger geographical area where the activities of the organization
or of employer are carried out and including any situation that is linked to
official work or official activity outside the office.
3. Inquiry Committee. – (1) Each organization shall constitute an Inquiry
Committee within thirty days of the enactment of this Act to enquire into
complaints under this Act.
(2) The Committee shall consist of three members of whom at least one member
shall be a woman. One member shall be from senior management and one shall be a
senior representative of the employees or a senior employee where there is no CBA.
One or more members can be co-opted from outside the organization if the
organization is unable to designate three members from within as described above. A
Chairperson shall be designated from amongst them.
- 4 -
(3) In case a complaint is made against one of the members of the Inquiry Committee
that member should be replaced by another for that particular case. Such member may be
from within or outside the organization.
(4) In case where no competent authority is designated the organization shall within
thirty days of the enactment of this Act designate a competent authority
4. Procedure for holding inquiry.– (1) The Inquiry Committee, within three days
of receipt of a written complaint, shall–
(a) communicate to the accused the charges and statement of allegations
leveled against him, the formal written receipt of which will be given;
(b) require the accused within seven days from the day the charge is
communicated to him to submit a written defense and on his failure to do
so without reasonable cause, the Committee shall proceed ex-parte; and
(c) enquire into the charge and may examine such oral or documentary
evidence in support of the charge or in defense of the accused as the
Committee may consider necessary and each party shall be entitled to
cross-examine the witnesses against him.
(2) Subject to the provisions of this Act and any rules made thereunder the
Inquiry Committee shall have power to regulate its own procedure for conducting inquiry
and for the fixing place and time of its sitting.
(3) The following provisions inter alia shall be followed by the Committee in
relation to inquiry:
(a) The statements and other evidence acquired in the inquiry process
shall be considered as confidential;
(b) An officer in an organization, if considered necessary, may be
nominated to provide advice and assistance to each party;
(c) Both parties, the complainant and the accused, shall have the right
to be represented or accompanied by a Collective Bargaining
Agent representative, a friend or a colleague;
- 5 -
(d) Adverse action shall not be taken against the complainant or the
witnesses;
(e) The inquiry Committee shall ensure that the employer or accused
shall in no case create any hostile environment for the complainant
so as to pressurize her from freely pursuing her complaint; and
(f) The Inquiry Committee shall give its findings in writing by
recording reasons thereof.
(4) The Inquiry Committee shall submit its findings and recommendations to
the Competent Authority within thirty days of the initiation of inquiry. If the Inquiry
Committee finds the accused to be guilty it shall recommend to the Competent Authority
for imposing one or more of the following penalties:
(i) Minor penalties:
(a) censure;
(b) withholding, for a specific period, promotion or increment;
(c) stoppage, for a specific period, at an efficiency bar in the
time-scale, otherwise than for unfitness to cross such bar; and
(d) recovery of the compensation payable to the complainant from
pay or any other source of the accused;
(ii) Major penalties:
(a) reduction to a lower post or time-scale, or to a lower stage in a
time-scale;
(b) compulsory retirement;
(c) removal from service;
(d) dismissal from service; and
(e) Fine. A part of the fine can be used as compensation for the
complainant. In case of the owner, the fine shall be payable to the
complainant.
(5) The Competent Authority shall impose the penalty recommended by the
- 6 -
Inquiry Committee under sub-section (4) within one week of the receipt of the
recommendations of the Inquiry Committee
(6) The Inquiry Committee shall meet on regular basis and monitor the
situation regularly until they are satisfied that their recommendations subject to decision,
if any of Competent Authority and Appellate Authority have been implemented.
(7) In case the complainant is in trauma the organization will arrange for
psycho-social counseling or medical treatment and for additional medical leave.
(8) The organization may also offer compensation to the complainant in case
of loss of salary or other damages.
5. Powers of the Inquiry Committee. – (1) The Inquiry Committee shall have
power–
(a) to summon and enforce attendance of any person and examine him on
oath;
(b) to require the discovery and production of any document;
(c) to receive evidence on affidavits; and
(d) to record evidence.
(2) The Inquiry Committee shall have the power to inquire into the matters of
harassment under this Act, to get the complainant or the accused medically examined by
an authorized doctor, if necessary, and may recommend appropriate penalty against the
accused within the meaning of sub-section (4) of section 4.
(3) The Inquiry Committee may recommend to Ombudsman for appropriate
action against the complainant if allegations leveled against the accused found to be false
and made with mala fide intentions.
(4) The Inquiry Committee can instruct to treat the proceedings confidential.
6. Appeal against minor and major penalties.– (1) Any party aggrieved by
- 7 -
decision of the Competent Authority on whom minor or major penalty is imposed may
within thirty days of written communication of decision prefer an appeal to an
Ombudsman established under section 7 .
(2) A complainant aggrieved by the decision of the Competent Authority may
also prefer appeal within thirty days of the decision to the Ombudsman.
(3) The Appellate Authority may, on consideration of the appeal and any
other relevant material, confirm, set aside, vary or modify the decision within thirty days
in respect of which such appeal is made. It shall communicate the decision to both the
parties and the employer.
(4) Until such a time that the ombudsman is appointed the District Court shall have
the jurisdiction to hear appeals against the decisions of Competent Authority and the provisions
of sub-sections (1) to (3) shall mutatis mutandis apply
(5) On the appointment of Ombudsman all appeals pending before the District Court
shall stand transferred to Ombudsman who may proceed with the case from the stage at which it
was pending immediately before such transfer.
7. Ombudsman:- (1) The respective Governments shall appoint an ombudsman at
the Federal and provincial levels.
(2) A person shall be qualified to be appointed as an Ombudsman who has been a judge
of high court or qualified to be appointed as a judge of high court. The Ombudsman may
recruit such staff as required to achieve the purposes of this Act and the finances will be
provided by the respective Governments
8. Ombudsman to enquire into complaint.- (1) Any employee shall have the
option to prefer a complaint either to the Ombudsman or the Inquiry Committee. ‘
(2) The Ombudsman shall within 3 days of receiving a complaint issue a written show cause
notice to the accused. The accused after the receipt of written notice, shall submit written
defense to the Ombudsman within five days and his failure to do so without reasonable
cause the Ombudsman may proceed ex parte. Both the parties can represent themselves
- 8 -
before the Ombudsman.
(3)The Ombudsman shall conduct an inquiry into the matter according to the rules made
under this Act and conduct proceedings as the Ombudsman deems proper.
(4) For the purposes of an investigation under this Act, the Ombudsman may require any
office or member of an organization concerned to furnish any information or to produce
any document which in the opinion of the Ombudsman is relevant and helpful in the
conduct of the investigation.
(5) The Ombudsman shall record his decision and inform both parties and the management
of the concerned organization for implementation of the orders.
9. Representation to President or Governor:- Any person aggrieved by a decision of
Ombudsman under sub- section (5) of section 8, may, within thirty days of decision, make a
representation to the President or Governor, as the case may be, who may pass such order thereon
as he may deem fit.
10. Powers of the Ombudsman
The Ombudsman shall for the purpose of this Act have the same powers as are vested in a
Civil Court under the Code of Civil Procedures, 1908 (Act V of 1908), in respect of the
following matters, namely:
i. Summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and
examining him on oath;
ii. Compelling the production of evidence;
iii. Receiving evidence on affidavits;
iv. Issuing commission for the examination of witnesses
v. entering any premises for the purpose of making any inspection or
investigation, enter any premises where the Ombudsman has a
reason to believe that any information relevant to the case may be
found; and
vi. The Ombudsman shall have the same powers as the High Court
has to punish any person for its contempt.
(2) Ombudsman shall while making the decision on the complaint may impose any of the
- 9 -
minor or major penalties specified in sub- section (4) of section 4.
11. Responsibility of employer.– (1) It shall be the responsibility of the employer to
ensure implementation of this Act, including but not limited to incorporate the Code of
Conduct for protection against harassment at the workplace as a part of their
management policy and to form Inquiry Committee referred to in section 3 and designate
a competent authority referred to in section 4.
(2) The management shall display copies of the Code in English as well as in
language understood by the majority of employees at conspicuous place in the
organization and the work place within six months of the commencement of this Act.
(3) On failure of an employer to comply with the provisions of this section
any employee of an organization may file a petition before the District Court and on
having been found guilty the employer shall be liable to fine which may extend to one
hundred thousand rupees but shall not be less than twenty-five thousand rupees.
12. Provisions of the Act in addition to and not in derogation of any other law.–
The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any other law
for the time being in force.
13. Power to make rules.-The Federal Government may make rules to
carryout the purposes of this Act.
- 10 -
Schedule
[See sections 2(c) and 11]
CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PROTECTION AGAINST HARASSMENT OF
WOMEN AT THE WORKPLACE
Whereas it is expedient to make the Code of Conduct at the Workplace etc to
provide protection and safety to women against harassment it is hereby provided as
under:
(i) The Code provides a guideline for behavior of all employees, including
management, and the owners of an organization to ensure a work
environment free of harassment and intimidation;
(ii) “Harassment” means any unwelcome sexual advance, request for sexual
favors or other verbal or written communication or physical conduct of a
sexual nature, or sexually demeaning attitudes, causing interference with
work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or offensive work
environment, or the attempt to punish the complainant for refusal to
comply to such a request or is made a condition for employment;
The above is unacceptable behavior in the organization and at the
workplace, including in any interaction or situation that is linked to
official work or official activity outside the office.
Explanation:
There are three significant manifestations of harassment in the
work environment:
(a) Abuse of authority
A demand by a person in authority, such as a supervisor,
for sexual favors in order for the complainant to keep or obtain
certain job benefits, be it a wage increase, a promotion, training
opportunity, a transfer or the job itself.
- 11 -
(b) Creating a hostile environment
Any unwelcome sexual advance, request for sexual favors
or other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature, which
interferes with an individual’s work performance or creates an
intimidating, hostile, abusive or offensive work environment.
The typical “hostile environment” claim, in general,
requires finding of a pattern of offensive conduct, however, in
cases where the harassment is particularly severe, such as in cases
involving physical contact, a single offensive incident will
constitute a violation.
(c) Retaliation
The refusal to grant a sexual favor can result in retaliation,
which may include limiting the employee’s options for future
promotions or training, distorting the evaluation reports, generating
gossip against the employee or other ways of limiting access to
his/her rights. Such behavior is also a part of the harassment.
(iii) An informal approach to resolve a complaint of harassment may be
through mediation between the parties involved and by providing advice
and counseling on a strictly confidential basis;
(iv) A complainant or a staff member designated by the complainant for the
purpose may report an incident of harassment informally to her supervisor,
or a member of the Inquiry Committee, in which case the supervisor or the
Committee member may address the issue at her discretion in the spirit of
this Code. The request may be made orally or in writing;
- 12 -
(v) If the case is taken up for investigation at an informal level, a senior
manager from the office or the head office will conduct the investigation
in a confidential manner. The alleged accused will be approached with the
intention of resolving the matter in a confidential manner;
(vi) If the incident or the case reported does constitute harassment of a higher
degree and the officer or a member reviewing the case feels that it needs to
be pursued formally for a disciplinary action, with the consent of the
complainant, the case can be taken as a formal complaint;
(vii) A complainant does not necessarily have to take a complaint of
harassment through the informal channel. She can launch a formal
complaint at any time;
(viii) The complainant may make formal complaint through her incharge,
supervisor, CBA nominee or worker's representative, as the case may be,
or directly to any member of the Inquiry Committee. The Committee
member approached is obligated to initiate the process of investigation.
The supervisor shall facilitate the process and is obligated not to cover up
or obstruct the inquiry;
(ix) Assistance in the inquiry procedure can be sought from any member of the
organization who should be contacted to assist in such a case;
(x) The employer shall do its best to temporarily make adjustments so that the
accused and the complainant do not have to interact for official purposes
during the investigation period. This would include temporarily changing
the office, in case both sit in one office, or taking away any extra charge
over and above their contract which may give one party excessive powers
over the other's job conditions. The employer can also decide to send the
accused on leave, or suspend the accused in accordance with the
applicable procedures for dealing with the cases of misconduct, if
required;
- 13 -
(xi) Retaliation from either party should be strictly monitored. During the
process of the investigation work, evaluation, daily duties, reporting
structure and any parallel inquiries initiated should be strictly monitored to
avoid any retaliation from either side;
(xii) The harassment usually occurs between colleagues when they are alone,
therefore usually it is difficult to produce evidence. It is strongly
recommended that staff should report an offensive behavior immediately
to someone they trust, even if they do not wish to make a formal
complaint at the time. Although not reporting immediately shall not affect
the merits of the case; and
(xiii) The Code lays down the minimum standards of behavior regarding
protection of women from harassment at workplace etc but will not affect
any better arrangement that an organization may have developed nor will
it bar the grant of protection that employees working in an institute may
secure from their employers through negotiation.
- 14 -
STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS
The objective of this Act is to create a safe working environment for women,
which is free of harassment, abuse and intimidation with a view toward fulfillment of
their right to work with dignity. It will also enable higher productivity and a better quality
of life at work. Harassment is one of the biggest hurdles faced by working women
preventing many who want to work to get themselves and their families out of poverty.
This Act will open the path for women to participate more fully in the development of
this country at all levels.
This Act builds on the principles of equal opportunity for men and women and
their right to earn a livelihood without fear of discrimination as stipulated in the
Constitution. This Act complies with the Government’s commitment to high international
labour standards and empowerment of women. It also adheres to the Human Rights
Declaration, the United Nation’s Convention for Elimination of all forms of
Discrimination Against Women and ILO’s convention 100 and 111 on workers’ rights. It
adheres to the principles of Islam and all other religions in our country which assure
women’s dignity.
This Act requires all public and private organizations to adopt an internal Code of
Conduct and a complain/appeals mechanism aimed at establishing a safe working
environment, free of intimidation and abuse, for all working women. It shall also
establish an Ombudsman at Federal and provincial levels.
MINISTER-IN-CHARGE
YOUSAF RAZA GILLANI
PRIME MINISTER
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
- 15 -
--------------------


>>> OCR: SEXUALHARASSMENT-POLICY.pdf <<<
THE HIGHER EDUCATION COMMISSION
POLICY ON PROTECTION AGAINST SEXUAL HARASSMENT IN
HIGHER EDUCATION INSTITUTIONS
[Revised January 2024]
1
CONTENTS
1. PRINCIPLES AND PURPOSES OF THE POLICY...............................................................................3
2. PROHIBITED CONDUCT ..............................................................................................................4
3. JURISDICTION.............................................................................................................................5
4. DESIGNATED RESOURCES............................................................................................................5
5. COMPLAINTS AND REPORTING....................................................................................................5
6. INTERIM MEASURES AND SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTS ...................................................................6
7. INQUIRY COMMITTEE..................................................................................................................7
8. INVESTIGATION AND ADJUDICATION...........................................................................................8
9. CONFIDENTIALITY ........................................................................................................................9
10. PENALTIES ............................................................................................................................... 10
11. RIGHT OF APPEAL .................................................................................................................... 11
12. MALA FIDE ALLEGATIONS......................................................................................................... 11
13. PROTECTION AGAINST REPRISAL.............................................................................................. 12
14. SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS REGARDING RELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN INDIVIDUALS .................... 12
15. EDUCATION FOR PREVENTION.................................................................................................. 12
ANNEX 1: EXAMPLES OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT CASES AT HEIS ...................................................... 14
2
HIGHER EDUCATION COMMISSION
POLICY ON PROTECTION AGAINST SEXUAL HARASSMENT IN
HIGHER EDUCATION INSTITUTIONS
1. PRINCIPLES AND PURPOSES OF THE POLICY
1.1. Higher Education Institutions (“HEIs”) are highly consequential institutions in society that are
dedicated to the pursuit and dissemination of knowledge. Members of the HEI community have
several important rights and privileges, central among which is the right to pursue inquiry and
search for knowledge without hinderance from unlawful or otherwise unacceptable
constraints. The Higher Education Commission (the “HEC”), which has been mandated by law to
prescribe conditions under which HEIs in the country may be opened and operated, takes
very seriously the freedom of teachers, researchers, scholars, students and other members of
the HEI community to live and work in a safe environment in which their dignity is protected.
1.2. Protection against sexual harassment is important not only because it threatens the freedom
and conduciveness of the environment at institutions of higher learning. At a more fundamental
level, such conduct is unacceptable because it violates personal dignity and shall not be tolerated
at HEIs in Pakistan under any circumstance.
1.3. In accordance with the terms of this policy, sexual harassment shall be prohibited at HEIs in
Pakistan, and shall constitute a punishable offence under the policy. The HEC affirms the right of
every member of the HEI community live, study and work in an environment that is free from
sexual harassment. The goal of this policy is to prevent sexual harassment from taking place,
and where necessary to act upon complaints of sexual harassment promptly, fairly, judiciously
and with due regard to confidentiality for all parties concerned.
1.4. All administrators, deans, managers, faculty, department chairs, directors of schools or programs
and others in supervisory or leadership positions have an obligation to be familiar with and to
uphold this policy and its procedures along with informing members of their staff about its
existence. HEIs are encouraged to formulate internal policies that further strengthen or expand
the protections available under the HEC’s policy on sexual harassment.
1.5. This policy has been made pursuant to the powers granted to the HEC under the Higher
Education Commission Ordinance, 2002, and is binding on all higher education institutions in the
country, whether operating in the public or private sectors. Violations or failure to comply with
the HEC’s policies may lead to regulatory action being taken against non-compliant HEIs.
1.6. This policy is consistent with and has been made in light of the provisions of the Protection
Against Harassment of Women at the Workplace Act 2010 (as amended) (the “2010 Harassment
Act”). It extends the protection against sexual harassment to all members of the HEI community,
and provides the option to aggrieved persons to seek recourse to resources within the HEI or to
seek redressal through the provisions of the 2010 Act.
3
2. PROHIBITED CONDUCT
2.1. “Sexual harassment” means any unwelcome sexual advance, request for sexual favors or other
verbal or written communication or physical conduct of a sexual nature, or sexually demeaning
attitudes, where:
a) Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a term or condition of
an individual participation in any activity at the HEI;
b) Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used as a basis for academic
or employment decision affecting that individual; or
c) Such conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individual’s
academic or work performance, or of creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive
educational or working environment.
2.2. Sexual harassment may be overt or subtle, and can range from visual signals or gestures to verbal
abuse to physical contact along with hand or sign language to denote sexual activity, persistent
and unwelcome flirting (see Annex 1 for examples of various manifestations).
2.3. The following behaviors are specifically prohibited under this policy. This following are meant to
provide specificity to the definition provided in clauses 2.1. However, it is not an exhaustive list,
and other behaviors that fall within the scope of the definition above shall also be prohibited.
a) Especially Egregious Non-Consensual Acts: Acts that would be included in the
category of rape. While such situations will be covered under the laws of the country,
and law enforcement institutions and the courts will investigate and adjudicate
accordingly, the HEI administration has a special obligation to take preventative
measures, offer immediate assistance and take interim measures when required.
b) Non-Consensual Sexual Contact: Includes sexual contact with another person
without consent.
c) Sexual Exploitation: Taking of actions that violate the sexual privacy of others or taking
sexual advantage of another without their consent. For example, taking pictures,
videotaping, viewing or distributing explicit images or sexual information of another
person without their consent.
d) Other Pervasive or Severe Behaviors: It is not necessary that there be actual sexual
contact for a behavior to be categorized as sexual harassment. Other unwelcome
behaviors are also prohibited if (i) they are based on an individual’s sex or gender (ii) are
persistent or highly serious and (iii) create an atmosphere which is intimidating or
hostile. These include but are not limited to lewd remarks or gestures, highly offensive
jokes of a sexual nature, commenting inappropriately about another’s body, and
stalking.
e) Sex Discrimination: Adverse treatment of individuals based on their sex or gender
rather than on merit. This would include instances such as the singling out (for such
adverse treatment as lower salary or grades, or more severe punishment) of person(s)
on the basis of sex or gender.
4
2.4. All the actions categorized as sexual harassment when done physically or verbally would also be
considered as sexual harassment when done electronically such as through the
internet, e- mails, social media, texting, telephone, voicemail etc.
2.5. All actions of harassment or discrimination may be taken by a person of any gender against a
person of the same or another gender, and would need to be considered by the HEI if the act
qualifies as a prohibited act under the policy.
2.6. Sexual harassment is especially offensive when perpetrated by persons in authority, and when
submission is made a condition toward any HEI activity or benefit (for example, when
submission is made the basis of the evaluation of an individual).
2.7. Sexual harassment will be considered especially egregious when the accused knew or reasonably
should have known that the victim was in an impaired or incapacitated state. However,
impairment of the accused, such as a result of the use of any illegal substances, shall not diminish
their responsibility for harassment under this policy.
3. JURISDICTION
3.1. This policy applies to actions by students, faculty, staff, other members of the HEI community
(such as interns, residents etc.), or third parties (such as service providers, visitors etc.), who
may be male, female or transgender persons, when the misconduct occurs:
a) on the HEI property (i.e. on campus) or in its immediate vicinity;
b) off the HEI property, if (i) the conduct occurs in connection with an HEI recognized
program or activity or (ii) the conduct may create a hostile environment or pose a safety
risk on campus; and
c) using the university’s computing or network resources accessed from an off-campus
location, which shall be deemed to have occurred on campus.
4. DESIGNATED RESOURCES
4.1. The HEI shall designate at least two members of the HEI administration (the “Focal Persons”), at
least one of whom shall be a woman, to offer support and immediate assistance to those who
have experienced sexual harassment. Contact information of such individuals shall be easily
available, including on the HEIs website.
4.2. The HEI shall also constitute an Inquiry Committee to investigate and adjudicate any allegations
of prohibited conduct (the “Inquiry Committee”) in accordance with the provisions of Section 7
below. Those who have experienced sexual harassment may also contact members of the Inquiry
Committee for support and advice.
5. COMPLAINTS AND REPORTING
5.1. A complaint may be lodged by any person who has experienced sexual harassment as defined in
Section 2 (Prohibited Conduct) read with Section 3 (Jurisdiction) of this policy, with either the
Focal Person or with any member of the Sexual Harassment Inquiry Committee.
5
5.2. In cases in which the conduct in question falls within the scope of the 2010 Harassment Act, the
affected person shall also have an option to submit a complaint to the Ombudsperson in
accordance with the provisions of the 2010 Harassment Act.
5.3. In the event that a complainant is reluctant to contact the Focal Persons or any members of the
Inquiry Committee, the complainant may contact a colleague, instructor, the employment
supervisor, manager, department chair, dean or VC. It will be the responsibility of the individual
contacted to report the case to the Inquiry Committee without identifying either the
complainant or the alleged offender and to ask for advice on procedure and policy from them
to effect solution, if a solution is necessary.
5.4. Complainants shall be encouraged to submit complaints promptly, preferably within 3 months
but no later than 12 months from the last date of the alleged harassment. An extension of up
to 1 year may be granted by the Focal Persons or the Inquiry Committee upon written request
stating the reasons for the delay in submitting the complaint.
5.5. All members of the HEI community are encouraged to report any instances of sexual harassment
that they may have observed to the Focal Persons or the Inquiry Committee. For the purposes
of safeguarding the campus community, HEIs have an obligation to investigate material
violations of this policy even in the event that a formal complaint has not been filed.
5.6. As soon as a complaint or report is received by one of the designated resources, it shall be shared
by him or her (within a period of 24 hours) with all Focal Persons and members of the Inquiry
Committee for further action.
5.7. For minor violations, complainants may opt to make an informal complaint to either the Focal
Person or the Inquiry Committee. The primary objective of informal resolution mechanism is to
take preventative action, so that minor violations are detected early and appropriate warning is
given to the accused to stop the offending behavior before it reaches a higher degree of
seriousness. If the incident reported through this mechanism constitutes prohibited conduct
under Section 2 of this policy, the Inquiry Committee shall deal with the complaint accordingly.
6. INTERIM MEASURES AND SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTS
6.1. As soon as a complaint or report is received by designated resources or any member of the HEI
administration, depending on the nature and seriousness of the offence, the Focal Persons shall
take appropriate steps to provide interim measures that may be requested by the affected
persons or as otherwise may be deemed appropriate. If the affected person is not satisfied with
the measures taken, he or she may contact any member of the Inquiry Committee for necessary
action. Interim measures include but are not limited to:
a) adjustment in class or examination schedules, including for the purposes of attending
hearings;
6
b) access to counselling services or other appropriate medical assistance;
c) change in the work assignments;
d) arrangement for any assessments or evaluations to be made by a neutral person;
e) adjustment to class schedule, including withdrawal from course or changing the section;
f) notifying the campus security officials (or law enforcement in case of serious violations)
regarding the violation;
g) impositions of a HEI wide order designed to prohibit contact or communication between
certain persons;
h) change of the housing arrangement of certain persons; or
i) any other measures that may be deemed appropriate.
7. INQUIRY COMMITTEE
7.1. The Inquiry Committee shall be responsible for the investigation and adjudication of any
complaint received in connection with the violation of this policy.
7.2. The Inquiry Committee shall be constituted in the following manner:
a) The committee shall consist of three members, at least one of whom shall be a woman
and one of the members shall be a member of the senior management of the HEI.
b) All members of the committee shall be employees of HEI and will be appointed by the
Vice Chancellor (the “VC”) after the VC has taken nominations from senior members of
the HEI administration. The VC may co-opt one or more members from outside the HEI
if it is otherwise not possible to designate three members as described above.
c) Members of the Committee shall be individuals who are known for being principled,
credible, fair, gender-sensitive and have a strong character (someone who will not
change their decision due to pressure from friends, colleagues or seniors). They shall
have not conflict of interest in particular cases, and shall be impartial and unbiased.
d) Members of the Committee shall be appointed for a term of two year (shorter terms
may be required occasionally to fill vacancies). No member shall serve for more than two
consecutive terms. Former members will be eligible for reappointment after a lapse of
two years.
e) One of the members of the committee shall be appointed as the Chair by the VC, whose
duties shall include, but are not limited to: maintaining order during hearings, answering
procedural questions, granting or denying adjournments, maintaining proper
documentation of the proceedings, which shall constitute the official record and
reporting recommendations of the Committee to the VC. All these duties shall be
undertaken in consultation with the Committee members.
7
f) In case a complaint is made against one of the members of the committee, that member
shall be replaced by another (impartial member) for that particular case.
7.3. The HEI shall endeavor to provide training to members of the Inquiry Committee in investigation
and adjudication of conduct prohibited under this policy.
7.4. An HEI staff member shall be appointed to assist the Inquiry Committee. This work shall include
responsibilities such as organizing meetings, acting as a liaison between the committee and the
other parties involved, record keeping, making and updating a database to track the processing
of complaints, and ensuring appropriate awareness raising about the issue of sexual harassment
at HEI.
8. INVESTIGATION AND ADJUDICATION
8.1. All complaints alleging Sexual Harassment shall be forwarded to the Inquiry Committee within
24 hours of being received by the Focal Persons or any other office of the HEI.
8.2. As soon as is reasonably practicable after receiving a complaint, the Inquiry Committee shall
determine whether the alleged conduct in the complaint meets the criteria set forth in Sections
2 (Prohibited Conduct) and Section 3 (Jurisdiction) of this policy. If it is determined by a majority
of the members of the Inquiry Committee that the alleged conduct meets the aforementioned
criteria, a formal investigation shall be initiated.
8.3. In the absence of a formal complaint, if a serious violation of this policy is reported to the Inquiry
Committee, or a series of allegations against the same person are received, the Inquiry
Committee may determine by majority vote to initiate proceedings after notifying the VC.
8.4. After initiating the investigation, and not later than three days of the receipt of a written
complaint, the Inquiry Committee shall:
a) communicate to the accused the charges and statement of allegations leveled against
him/her, the formal written receipt of which will be given;
b) require the accused within seven days from the day the charge is communicated to
him/her to submit a written defense and on his/her failure to do so without reasonable
cause, the Committee shall proceed exparte; and
c) enquire into the charge and may acquire and examine such oral or documentary
evidence in support of the charge or in defense of the accused as the Committee may
consider necessary (including by summoning potential witnesses) and each party shall
be entitled to crossexamine the witnesses against him/her.
8
8.5. The following rules shall be applicable to the hearings conducted by the Inquiry Committee:
a) All hearings shall be closed hearings;
b) The Inquiry Committee will hear statements from the complainant(s) and respondent(s),
the witnesses if any (as required) and study any other documents and/or evidence as
presented by the relevant parties or collected in the process of conducting inquiry;
c) The Inquiry Committee shall have discretion to limit testimony and questioning of
witnesses to those matters it considers relevant to the disposition of the case;
d) The Chair of the Inquiry Committee shall have the power to compel a witness to attend,
and the complainant(s) and/or respondent(s) may request the Chair's aid in this regard;
e) The complainant and the respondent may at any stage of any of the procedures outlined
in this policy be represented and/or accompanied by another person of her/his choice.
f) The Committee shall have the right to acquire any relevant piece of evidence to further
their understanding of the case and the relevant parties, witnesses and administration
are required to provide them with this documentation and/or evidence to facilitate the
investigation;
g) Objective documentation of the proceedings of the Inquiry Committee shall be
maintained where high confidentiality of the records and other such material shall be
upheld at all times;
h) The respondent shall be allowed to cross question the complainant and witnesses unless
the committee decides otherwise;
i) Where any procedural matter is not dealt with in this policy, the Inquiry Committee may,
guided by the principles of fairness, establish any appropriate procedure.
8.6. Members of the HEI community have an obligation to cooperate in an investigation, and refusal
to cooperate may result in disciplinary action. There may be circumstances in which the
complainant may wish to limit their participation in the proceedings. The complainant shall not
be subject to discipline, but the HEI may be obligated to proceed with the investigation.
8.7. Following the formal hearing, the members of the Inquiry Committee shall deliberate and
determine the validity of the complaint based on the totality of the circumstances. The presence
or absence of evidence cannot always be the sole criteria on which a judgment can be made. The
credibility of statements and context must be kept in mind during the deliberations. The
committee members will reach a decision unanimously or by a majority after the deliberations.
Where the complaint is found to be valid, the Committee will recommend an appropriate
penalty.
8.8. The Inquiry Committee shall complete the inquiry and recommend its final decision within a
period of 30 days. It shall then send its decision to the VC giving its findings in writing by recording
reasons thereof (which shall include any note of dissent) for endorsement and action.
Recommendation of the Inquiry Committee shall be implemented within seven days.
9
9. CONFIDENTIALITY
9.1. Confidentiality shall be enjoined on the Focal Persons, the Inquiry Committee and all others
involved in the process. This does not preclude the reasonable and discreet disclosure of
information in order to elicit the facts of the case, or to implement and monitor properly the
terms of any decision.
9.2. The Focal Persons, members of the Inquiry Committee and their support staff shall be subject to
administrative disciplinary action for inappropriate breaches of confidentiality on their part.
9.3. All notes and records arising in connection with an investigation shall be maintained in a
confidential file at HEI.
10. PENALTIES
10.1. In cases in which the respondent is a student, the following sanctions may be imposed:
a) In case of minor violations, the student may be issued a warning or reprimand. These
shall be considered when adjudicating future violations.
b) In case of more serious violations, the following formal sanctions may be imposed:
disciplinary probation, withholding of degree for a period of time, suspension or
expulsion.
c) The following may be added to any of the penalties listed above: campus service;
relocation from campus housing; exclusion of the respondent from a designated
portion(s) of HEI buildings or grounds, or from one or more HEI designated activities,
(provided such penalty is appropriate to the offence and where the penalty does not
prevent the respondent from pursuing her/his studies); attending educational program;
inclusion of decision in the student’s record, except in the case of the first instance of a
minor violation (for up to seven years).
10.2. In cases in which the respondent is a member of the faculty, researcher or employee/staff of the
HEI, the following sanctions may be imposed (individually or in combination), keeping in view
the terms of the applicable employment policies:
a) oral or written reprimand;
b) counselling or training;
c) inclusion of the decision in a specified personnel file(s) of the respondent;
d) exclusion of the respondent from a designated portion(s) of HEI buildings or
grounds, or from one or more designated HEI activities, where such penalty is
appropriate to the offence and where the penalty does not prevent the
respondent from carrying out her/his professional duties;
e) the imposition of a fine;
f) recommendation for suspension of the respondent without pay;
g) recommendation that dismissal proceedings be commenced; or
h) other sanctions, as deemed appropriate, in accordance with the terms of the
employment policies.
10
11. RIGHT OF APPEAL
11.1. Both the complainant and the respondent shall have a right to appeal the decision of the Inquiry
Committee within a period of 30 days from the date of notification of the decision.
11.2. In cases in which the conduct falls within the scope of the 2010 Act, the aggrieved party shall
have an option to file an appeal to the Ombudsman in accordance with the provisions of the
2010 Act.
11.3. There shall be a three-member appellate body (the “Appellate Body”) appointed by the VC that
shall include at least one senior member of the HEI administration (at the level of dean or
equivalent) and at least one of the members of which shall be a woman. No member of the
Inquiry Committee shall concurrently be a member of the Appellate Body. In case the complaint
had been made against one of the members of the committee, that member shall be replaced
by another (impartial member) for that particular case.
11.4. Appeal to the Appellate Body against the decision of the Inquiry Committee can be filed on the
following grounds:
a) the alleged conduct does or does not fall within the scope of this policy;
b) the Inquiry Committee reached a decision without consideration of material
information;
c) the imposed penalty is unfair because it is disproportionate or materially different from
that imposed for similar misconduct; or
d) the adjudication process followed by the Inquiry Committee was procedurally unfair.
11.5. In order to reach its decision, the Appellate Body may communicate with the parties, the
members of the Inquiry Committee or other members of the HEI community as it deems fit.
11.6. The Appellate Body may, on consideration of the appeal and any other relevant material,
confirm, set aside, vary or modify the decision within 30 days in respect of which such appeal is
made, and shall communicate the decision to both the parties, the VC and the Inquiry
Committee.
12. MALA FIDE ALLEGATION
12.1. False allegations of sexual harassment made out of malice or intent to hurt the reputation of the
persons against whom the complaint is filed are to be dealt with as serious offences. Making
mala fide allegation of sexual harassment knowing it to be false, whether in a formal or informal
context, is a serious offense under this policy.
12.2. In the event that the Inquiry Committee determines that a false allegation made in the complaint
with mala fide intent, it may recommend appropriate action against the complainant by sending
its findings to the VC (by recording reasons thereof and including any note of dissent) for
endorsement and action. In cases in which the conduct falls within the scope of the 2010 Act,
the Inquiry Committee may recommend the handing over of such cases to the 12 Ombudsperson
for taking further action against the complainant who made the false allegation with mala fide
intent.
11
13. PROTECTION AGAINST REPRISAL
13.1. HEIs shall not allow reprisal or threats of reprisal against any member of the HEI community who
makes use of this policy (formally or informally). HEIs shall also prohibits such threats or actions
against anyone who participates (e.g. testifies, assists, etc.) in proceedings held under its
jurisdiction.
13.2. Retaliation or any other action against complainant of sexual harassment is to be taken seriously
under the provisions of this policy. All allegations of retaliation would be investigated formally
under the purview of this policy, and if substantiated, would result in appropriate disciplinary
action.
14. SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS REGARDING RELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN INDIVIDUALS
14.1. In contrast with sexual harassment, personal relationships among consenting adults of the HEI
community that do not breach the social and cultural norms of the society are, in general, a
private matter.
14.2. Under the policy it is highly inappropriate for any member of the community to establish an
intimate relationship with a student, subordinate or colleague on whose academic or work
performance he or she will be required to make professional judgments. The policy requires that
the individual may not involve themselves in such conduct as the professional responsibility for
supervision or oversight would be affected in such cases. Relationships with a difference in
power and authority can seriously affect the institutional working as well as the credibility of all
involved. In particular, intimate or romantic relationships between faculty members and
students (whether at the undergraduate or the graduate level) shall be prohibited.
15. EDUCATION FOR PREVENTION
15.1. To ensure prevention of sexual harassment on campus, HEIs should develop programs to educate
its staff, faculty and students as well as provide written material for reference. Education is
essential to sensitizing the university faculty, staff and students in order to eliminate sexual
harassment on campus. This shall be done in multiple ways, including those listed below.
15.2. The HEC’s Sexual Harassment Policy, any of the university’s internal policies as well information
regarding the 2010 Act shall be:
(a) available on the HEI website;
(b) be a part of the package that all new hires receive;
(c) be a part of orientation of new students and included in any written material given to
them;
(d) be included in the HEI’s Prospectus (a summarized version); and
(e) displayed in prominent locations on campus
12
15.3. The names of the Focal Persons and the members of the Inquiry Committee shall be made
visible/accessible to the HEI community through its website, posted on notice boards, etc.
15.4. The HEI shall ensure that its relevant members (e.g., Focal Persons, members of the Inquiry
Committee, HR personnel, etc.) attend a training to educate themselves on sexual harassment
and relevant the laws and policies. Once trained, designated HR personnel shall be made
responsible for educating all personnel, staff, faculty, students that join the HEI. This will be an
ongoing activity.
15.5. All departments at HEI must disseminate and display information about these programs, what
constitutes sexual harassment, how to respond to it and what to do when someone asks for
advice about sexual harassment.
13
ANNEX 1
EXAMPLES OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT CASES AT HEIs
A. Actual Reported Cases
The following is a list of actual reported cases that are provided as examples of what constitutes sexual
harassment.
a. Asking female students to visit personal offices of their supervisors/authorities in-charge
after office hours to discuss their grades and assignments.
b. Asking female students to meet supervisor/authorities in-charge out of the HEI premises
with the promise of improvement in grades.
c. Financial and sexual gratification from graduate students (PhD, M-Phil, Masters) by their
supervisor.
d. Unwelcome sexual advances, whether or not they involve physical touching.
e. Sexual epithets, jokes, written or oral references to sexual conduct, gossip regarding
one’s sex life.
f. Comments on an individual’s body, comments about an individual’s sexual activity,
deficiencies, or prowess; displaying sexually suggestive objects, pictures, or cartoons.
g. Unwelcome staring, whistling, brushing against the body, sexual gestures, or suggestive
or insulting comments.
h. Inquiries into one’s sexual experiences.
i. Discussion of one’s sexual activities (even if males are discussing this it is done
deliberately in front of female students or colleagues).
j. Using derogatory and abusive language that refers to others mother’s or sister’s bodies.
k. Acts of sexual connotation relating to the same as a common usage in conversation.
B. Types and Examples
The following list provides further examples of actual reported or common cases by category:
1. Misconduct by Teachers
a. Male Teacher asked the Female student, if you want “A” grade, you need to take your
final exam at my home.
b. Male head of the department forced the female subordinate employee by telling her
that if she wants her contract extended she needs to spend time with him after office
hours.
c. Male HOD deliberately touching or hitting the body of female employee by file or
pen/pencil.
d. Male Teacher referring to female bodies and reproductive cycles to embarrass female
students during class lectures.
14
e. Needy female students were given financial support by Faculty member in exchange for
sexual favors
f. Students complaints of a teacher telling vulgar jokes during classes which had sexual
innuendos
g. Complaints against male supervisor/teacher spending long hours locked away in office
with a young female colleague or student.
2. Misconduct by Students
a. A male student making vulgar jokes about a female student on the social media
or verbally telling vulgar jokes about her to his fellow students.
b. Students sending in written notes letters, emails with requests for intimacy
c. Female student asked the teacher to provide the final grade list of all students.
When the teacher refused to do that, the student registered a complaint against
the teacher that he tried to hold her hand in parking lot while asking her to meet
in private for grade list.
d. Female student visiting male teacher in his office unnecessarily and spending
long hours and initiating intimacy for benefits (of grades, employment or even
monetary).
e. Repeatedly following particular female students around the campus
3. Misconduct by Employees
a. Using vulgar language to address females (student, faculty and other employees)
b. To touch their intimate parts in the presence of women
c. Younger faculty member was blocked by Dean of the relevant faculty to get
higher education (PhD/Phil) [upon her refusal to comply with his undue
demands].
d. Junior faculty was transferred to another department against her will by the
authorities as a punitive measure for not complying with undue requests for
(sexual) favors.
e. Giving extra favors to young female faculty/staff in nominating their names for
international/domestic trips for their attention.
f. Threatening female students by using forged/fake documents and pictures to
blackmail them into compliance.
g. Anonymous letters/pamphlets/e-mails defaming or character assassination of
employees/teachers/students.
15
--------------------


 --- LINKS FOUND ---
